Now let's go back to making some more complicated queries and you will need thinker for that.
So make sure you have started it from your comment line.
So in this lecture I will show you an example where we'll see if blog posts have any comments.
So basically we'll try to fudge only the blog posts that happen to have some comments.
So first of course we'll see what blog posts do we have.
So we'll see what we get by calling blog posts.
Oh and I happen to have free blog posts inside the database so we got them all.
But remember that we haven't been adding any comments to those two last blog posts only to the first
one.
So let's see how we can fetch only the blog posts that happened to have some comments.
So we'll do a blog post and instead of with we'll use has and now will use the name of this relation
which is comments and since this will create a query we need to use get to get the actual result of
this and you can see that we only got the blog post with Ida too which would match what we have inside
the database.
As you can see there is no comment with that idea other than two.
So we only got one result now.
Let's verify if this is actually the case and let's create another comment so we can assign it to a
new variable let's create new comment.
We have to set the content of it.
It can be anything like ABC and now will save it to some blog post.
But as you remember we can also do it from the other side so we can set the blog post I did directly
on the comment.
Let's see what we have inside that database may be will assign it to the blog post free.
So let's do that now and finally we have to save it.
So comment save
OK.
Now let's clear the screen and see what we will get by calling this again so blog post has
comments.
Get in.
Now we get to blog posts since this has five comments and we have just added a comment to this blog
post with ideas free.
So that's why we got two blog posts back.
So this is how you would query for all the models that have this certain relationship.
And basically I don't mean that they have it defined because obviously all of the blog posts have it
defined but with all their blog posts that happen to have at least one comment as saying so one.
So the relation contains at least one element assigned.
So this was pretty simple.
Now let's clear the screen and add some more comments so we'll create new instance of the comment model
assign content to it which of course can be anything whatever comes to your mind.
And this time will also assign it to the blog post with Ida free.
We'll save this comment.
So now the blog post with Ida free will have two comments.
Clear it and create another comment.
Obviously it's really time to learn about database seeding because it's becoming really a pain to write
all this code manually.
So we are creating another comment.
And this time we'll assign it to our last blog post which let me check.
Happens to have ideas for.
So whatever you have inside your database might be different.
And now we are saving this last comment.
So let's see if we have all those comments inside the database.
So there should be one blog post with five comments one blog post with free comments and the last one
only has one comment.
Okay now let's clear the screen.
And this time will try to fetch all the blog posts that happened to have at least two comments.
So again we'll be using that has static method.
We specify the relation name which is comments but now we can add a condition.
So we want this to be more or equal to.
So now we want to fetch all the blog posts that have at least two comments so you can see that we got
back to elements that I wish I did too.
And we've IDI free which would match what we expect because the last blog post with 84 has only one
comment.
Now let's see another example.
So let's clear it up and take a look at the data base so I R that is comments like ABC for a reason
because now we would like to fetch all the blog posts that have have some comments but they would have
to also contain the text ABC.
So if you haven't created it like that make sure that you will create at least two comments for two
blog posts that will have the ABC text inside it.
So let's see how we can do that.
So we assign it to posts and we'll use blog post where has this time so we'll do an additional query
and it will accept two parameters so we want to fetch from the comments and the second parameter would
be closure.
So this would get past the query object from which we can execute more complicated query and we'll do
query where.
So where is the method of this query object that we get past and we want to check the content property
of our comments we'll use the like.
Operator And we want to contain everything we want to find everything that has ABC inside it
so don't forget the semicolon.
Now we had to close this function close the call to where has And finally we would like get.
So we want to get this result.
And as you can see and as we expected we can get back to blog posts and they are with the idea free
and I.D. for.
So let's take another look at our database and how it looks like.
So we can see those first five comments assigned to the blog post with Ida doesn't have a b c text inside
it but those last free ones do have it and they happen to be assigned to the blog post with ideas free
and ideas for.
So we fudged all the blog posts that contain certain text inside their comments by using this where
has static method.